Tom h add auto scavenge tutorial (#823)
EventStore/documentation: docs/tutorials/Auto-Scavenge.md

---
title: Auto-Scavenge
order: 7
---

## Tutorial: Using Auto-Scavenge

> This step-by-step tutorial guides you through using, scheduling and managing  **Auto-Scavenge** in EventStoreDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step-by-step tutorial guides you through using, scheduling and managing  **Auto-Scavenge** in KurrentDB.
```

The Auto-scavenge feature is designed to manage and automate cluster scavenges across multiple nodes efficiently. It operates on a scheduled basis using CRON expressions, ensuring that only one node scavenge occurs simultaneously to minimize disruption. The feature prioritizes non-leader nodes for scavenging, with the leader node resigning before its own scavenge is executed to reduce impact on cluster performance.

Auto-scavenge also handles restarting or cancelling scavenges in case of node loss and allows for pausing and resuming of cluster scavenges as needed, providing a comprehensive and automated approach to maintaining cluster health and performance.

#### Prerequisites:

> * [EventStoreDB 24.10 LTS installed and running](http://@server/quick-start/installation.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [KurrentDB 24.10 LTS installed and running](http://@server/quick-start/installation.md)
```

* [License key](http://@server/quick-start/installation.md#license-keys) for Auto-Scavenge (a valid license is required to use this feature)
* Requires $ops or $admin role

### Step 1: Verify license key

Ensure you have a valid **license key** to utilize Auto-Scavenge. Without the license, this feature will not function.

### Step 2: Confirm Auto-Scavenge availability

> By default, Auto-scavenge is bundled with EventStoreDB 24.10 LTS. You can confirm its availability in the EventStoreDB logs. Look for the following log message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Auto-scavenge plugin is bundled with KurrentDB 24.10 LTS. You can confirm its availability in the KurrentDB logs. Look for the following log message:
```

```
[INF] "AutoScavenge" "24.10.1" plugin enabled.
```

> For instructions on accessing EventStoreDB logs, refer to the [log documentation](http://@server/diagnostics/logs.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instructions on accessing KurrentDB logs, see [log documentation](http://@server/diagnostics/logs.md).
```

```
GET https://127.0.0.1:2113/auto-scavenge/status
Authorization: Basic admin:changeit
```

The response below shows that Auto-scavenge has been scheduled and will begin running in 13 hours, 14 minutes and 32.6999115 seconds.

```
{
  "state": "Waiting",
   "schedule": "0 3 * * *",
   "timeUntilNextCycle": "0.13:14:32.6299115"
}
```

See the [Auto-Scavenge documentation](https://docs.kurrent.io/server/v24.10/operations/auto-scavenge.html#http-endpoints) for more information on Auto-scavenge states.

### Step 5 (optional): Pausing Auto-Scavenge

If the status endpoint returns "state": "InProgress" and you want to pause Auto-Scavenge, submit a POST request to the `/auto-scavenge/pause` endpoint.

```
POST https://127.0.0.1:2113/auto-scavenge/pause
Authorization: Basic admin:changeit

```

### Step 6 (optional): Resume Auto-Scavenge

If the status endpoint returns "state": "Paused" and you want to resume Auto-Scavenge, submit a POST request to the `/auto-scavenge/resume` endpoint.

```
POST https://127.0.0.1:2113/auto-scavenge/resume
Authorization: Basic admin:changeit
```

### Summary

By following this tutorial, you should have successfully:

> * Scheduled Auto-scavenge to run on EventStoreDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Scheduled Auto-scavenge to run on KurrentDB
```

> * Verified Auto-scavenge status from EventStoreDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verified Auto-scavenge status from KurrentDB
```
